good evening we began with a remarkable
number right now around 95 wildfires are
burning in the western US and tonight
the US military is answering an urgent
call for help at least a hundred troops
have been called up in Washington State
the first deployment of active-duty
soldiers to battle fires in nine years
the fires are burning across at least
six states the stakes are high and so is
the cost 100 million dollars a week at
that rate officials say the money will
run out next month our team is deployed
across the region let's start in Chelan
Washington with national correspondent
Miguel Almaguer Miguel hey lesser good
evening heavy smoke hangs in the air
here behind me there is destruction in
front of me two miles ahead a wildfire
is moving in multiple directions at
least 56 thousand acres here have been
destroyed more than 32 homes are gone
this as that fire is on the move it may
be the most explosive inferno in the
nation what began as five small
lightning fires merged into this mega
monster it looks like a war zone here
because it is in the air and on the
ground the National Guard has arrived
but for now they're losing the battle it
was heartbreaking I'm getting phone
calls from people saying can you see if
my house is on fire oh the chelan
complex fire torching tens of thousands
of acres swallowing neighborhoods
destroying lives
John pulsipher took us by boat the only
way into the dream home he built 31
years ago in ours it was gone all the
neighbors pulled together we all are
determined that we will make it through
all that's left in this neighborhood
brick and ash Bruce burns raised three
boys here now there's nothing left it's
coming down in pure flames so it's like
a flamethrower coming through this and
it just took out every one of the
structures in Washington state alone
nearly 3,000 forced to flee the flames
but not everyone escaped a lie viola
Airbus lost his father who died of a
heart attack as he scrambled to flee I
loved him he loved me good man across
the West nearly 100 uncontrolled
wildfires are exploding out of control
they're not just dropping retarded from
the air the smoke jumpers are here now
to parachuting directly into hot spots
to battle the blaze in chelan this tour
is dependent community is in shambles
businesses and homes gone two lives here
33 years so it's hard to see this
tonight lives and ruins as this fire
rages on Miguel Almaguer NBC News
Washington's NBC News fans thanks for
checking out our YouTube channel
subscribe by clicking on that button
down here and then click on any of the
videos over here to watch the latest
interviews show highlights and digital
exclusives thanks for watching